# Diary Bot
## Description
An asynchronous Telegram bot designed for daily health monitoring. Built with Python 3 and the [aiogram 3](https://aiogram.dev/) framework, it allows users to log vital signs while providing administrators with powerful visualization tools.

### Key Features
- **Metric Logging:** Users can submit individual metrics (e.g., weight) or grouped data (e.g., Blood Pressure: SBP, DBP, and Pulse).
- **Data Persistence:** All entries are stored in a PostgreSQL database.
- **Admin Notifications:** Real-time updates are sent to the administrator upon every user submission.
- **Data Visualization:** The administrator can generate historical trend charts using Seaborn and Matplotlib based on a specific user's data.
- **Smart Reminders:** Users can configure personalized notifications to prompt them for specific metrics at set times throughout the day.
- **User Management:** Includes a blacklisting system for the administrator to manage access.

### Technologies
- **Language:** Python
- **Framework:** aiogram 3 (Asyncio)
- **Database:** PostgreSQL (asyncpg)
- **Visualization:** Seaborn, Matplotlib

## Getting Started
### Create the bot
Find the Telegram bot called [@BotFather](https://core.telegram.org/bots/features#creating-a-new-bot), type /newbot, and answer its questions about the new bot's name and username. Save the token generated by @BotFather.

### Determine the Admin's Telegram ID
Let the admin send an arbitrary message to the newly created bot. Then, execute the following Python snippet, having specified the actual token:

```
import requests

url = "https://api.telegram.org/bot{TG_TOKEN}/getUpdates"
print(requests.get(url).json())
```

The printed message should contain the sender's Telegram ID.

### Adding Health Metrics
In order to add a health metric, append a key value pair to `HEALTH_METRICS` in `bot/globals.py`:

```
"<Unique code>": {
      "name": "<Name of the metric>",
      "first": <True if the metric is first in a sequence or is an individual metric, otherwise False>,
      "button_text": "<Name of a sequence of metrics>",
      "prompt": "<Ask the user to enter the metric>",
      "next": "<The code of the next metric in a sequence; omit if not applicable>", 
  }
```

In order to add a chart for the new metric, implement an `elif metric == "<code>"` clause in `reply_chart` in `bot/charts.py`. It should save the image to `buffer = io.BytesIO()`.

### Adding Commands
For non-admin commands, in addition to a handler, there should be a dictionary in the `COMMANDS` variable in `bot/globals.py`:

```
{
    "command": "/command",
    "description": "What the command is doing"
}
```

### Environment Variables
At the top level, add a `.env` file:

```
# Bot
TG_TOKEN=""
ADMIN_TG_ID=""
TZ="<IANA Timezone>"

# Postgres
POSTGRES_USER=""
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=""
```

### Deployment
Copy the `init.sql` script (it creates the datbases when the bot is launched for the first time) to the server. The destination should be the same as in "docker-compose.yml -> services -> postgres -> volumes":

```
$ scp -r postgres <user>@<server_ip>:<absolute_path>/diary-bot/postgres
```

Assuming there is an [SSH key](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ugcUTNoGj4) connecting the server and the local machine, the following command will start the application:
```
$ docker context create diary-bot-context --docker "host=ssh://<user>@<server_ip>"
$ docker --context diary-bot-context compose up -d --build
```
